# Journal

The common theme with the readings this week seemed to be "are digital tools actually useful or are we just overly excited about technology that is at best telling us what we already know and at worst shaping our research questions just so we can use the tech." And the answer seemed to be, it's useful, but you have to be really careful how you're using it. The most interesting example of this for me was the "Confabulation in the humanities" example of opposite sets of data both being explainable using what we already know. But then, it seems so easy for ANY prior knowledge we have on a subject to influence our interpretations, or what data we even look at in the first place, OR what we do with that data. Avoiding this problem seems quite complicated. 

I'll admit I was a bit disappointed with topic modelling and other ways of analyzing text. In all the articles we've seen about it, the topics seem so clear and meaningful. But the ones I saw were repetitive or just didn't really seem to be easily labelled. And I didn't feel like I knew what kind of conclusions I would even hope to draw from words or phrases that commonly appear together. And I didn't know how to tell what words I might want to search for using AntConc or Voyant. These tools are so powerful and I can FEEL the potential they have, but it's overwhelming to try and figure out where to begin. 

**Zooming in and out**

I think in other history classes, there wasn't so much zooming in and out so much as teleporting from zoomed in and out views. We'd get a big picture, then maybe a case study or smaller scale event description, but the two aren't connected clearly. There's no pointing out Sarah Durrant's point in a scatter plot. The direct connections between the big and small picture aren't nearly as clear. But with DH, it seems unavoidable. You can't figure out what the big data means without zooming in on specific events or circumstances. And you need to look at the smaller picture to see what bigger trends you might want to look for. I don't think you could avoid this strong connection if you tried. 

**Arguing with digital history**

I think as online communication becomes more common, people are becoming more visually literate (there are memes with fairly complex meanings and no words!). But I think the dominant way we communicate digitally is still through written words, so non-textual modes of research and making arguments still need some sort of textual explanation. Even if it's just to confirm that the reader is interpreting things correctly, and not necessarily to over-explain (which I think would defeat the purpose of using something other than text as an argument). 
